Add Zimi Cloud Controller Documentation (#36668)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/zimi.markdown

---
title: Zimi Cloud Controller
description: Access and control your Zimi Cloud Controller and its connected Zimi-based devices.
featured: false
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_release: "2024.3.0"
ha_codeowners:
  - '@markhannon'
  - '@mhannon11'
ha_category:
  - Light
ha_domain: zimi
---

> The Zimi integration allows you to connect your Zimi Cloud Controller to Home Assistant and, via this integration, control local devices connected to the Zimi mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Zimi** {% term integration %} allows you to connect your Zimi Cloud Controller to Home Assistant and, via this integration, control local devices connected to the Zimi mesh.
```

> (See [Zimi's website](https://zimi.life/) for details of the Zimi portfolio).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a detailed description of the Zimi portfolio, refer to the [Zimi's website](https://zimi.life/).
```

> ## Supported Devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported devices
```

> The following Zimi devices are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration supports the following Zimi devices:
```

- Zimi Cloud Connect ([links to specifications](https://zimi.life/product/cloud-connect/))

> ## Unsupported Devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Unsupported devices
```

The following Zimi devices are yet to be supported:

- Zimi Matter Connect ([links to specifications](https://zimi.life/product/matter-connect/))

## Prerequisites

A configured Zimi Cloud Connect and internet connection is needed for this integration to work.

1. Open the app store and install the Zimi app.
2. Open the Zimi app and configure a Zimi network by adding and naming all Zimi devices.
3. Open the Zimi app and configure a Zimi Cloud Connect device.
4. Take a note of the Zimi Cloud Connect IP address and MAC address.
5. Configure the Zimi integration using standard configuration flow.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

You will be prompted to configure the Zimi Cloud Connect through the Home Assistant interface.

If the Zimi discovery process is successful and there is a single Zimi Cloud Connect, then the integration will be configured without further user input.

> If the Zimi discovery process is successful and there are multiple Zimi Cloud Connects present, then the user will be prompted to select the desired Zimi Cloud Connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Zimi discovery process is successful and there are multiple Zimi Cloud Connects present, then you will be prompted to select the desired Zimi Cloud Connect.
```
we avoid the term "user", but use "you" instead

> If the Zimi discovery process is unsuccessful (i.e. the Zimi Cloud Connect is not reachable on the local LAN), then the user will be prompted for the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Zimi discovery process is unsuccessful (that is, if the Zimi Cloud Connect is not reachable on the local LAN), then you will be prompted for the following parameters:
```

{% configuration_basic %}
host:
    description: "The IP address of your Zimi Cloud Connect. You can find it via your router admin interface."
port:

>     description: "The port number used to connect to your Zimi Cloud Connect.   If no port number is entered, the integration will use the default port.   (The default port will be correct in almost all deployment scenarios)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: "The port number used to connect to your Zimi Cloud Connect. If no port number is entered, the integration will use the default port. (The default port will be correct in almost all deployment scenarios)"
```

{% endconfiguration_basic %}

It is possible to add multiple Zimi Cloud Connect devices.

> ## Available Entities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported functionality
```

> The integration will support all Zimi devices.  It should be noted that the naming conventions and default integration types may not be what the user is expecting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integration will support all Zimi devices. Note that the naming conventions and default integration types may not be what you expect.
```

> 1. Zimi devices that are generic switches will be shown in the UI as a switch and not as a light.   The 'Identify as light for voice control' is not available in the API to pass the necessary information to HA to correctly classify.   For more details of the concept and how to change your device to the correct type after the initial integration, see [Change device type of a switch](/integrations/switch_as_x/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Zimi devices that are generic switches will be shown in the UI as a switch and not as a light. The **Identify as light for voice control** is not available in the API to pass the necessary information to HA to correctly classify. For more details on the concept and how to change your device to the correct type after the initial integration, see [Change device type of a switch](/integrations/switch_as_x/).
```

> 2. Zimi devices and names will be mapped per HA guidelines in the table below.   The user may change these names to more friendly names - see [Customizing entities](/docs/configuration/customizing-devices/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Zimi devices and names will be mapped per HA guidelines in the table below. The user may change these names to more friendly names - see [Customizing entities](/docs/configuration/customizing-devices/).
```

When you add a supported device, the following entities will be created:

> | Zimi Product                    | HA Device Name | HA Entities         | HA Default Friendly Name                                         | Supported |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Zimi product                    | HA device name | HA entities         | HA default friendly name                                         | Supported |
```
we use [sentence-style capitalization](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/text-formatting/using-type/use-sentence-style-capitalization) also in headings

| Light Dimmer Switch             | Light          | 1xLight             | Light {Name}                                                     | Yes       |
| Multi Dimmer Switch (2 button)  | Light          | 1xLight             | Light {Name}                                                     | Yes       |
| Multi Dimmer Switch (4 button)  | Light          | 2xLight             | Light {Name}<br>Light {Name}                                     | Yes       |
| Multi-Purpose Switch (1 button) | Switch         | 1xSwitch            | Switch {Name}                                                    | Future    |
| Multi-Purpose Switch (2 button) | Switch         | 2xSwitch            | Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name}                                   | Future    |
| Multi-Purpose Switch (3 button) | Switch         | 3xSwitch            | Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name}                  | Future    |
| Multi-Purpose Switch (4 button) | Switch         | 4xSwitch            | Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name} | Future    |
|Power Point                      | Outlet         | 2xOutlet            | Outlet {Name}|Future|

> ### Zimi Light Controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Zimi light controller
```

- Light entity: Basic on/off and brightness control

## Data updates

The integration receives updates instantly from the Zimi Cloud Controller via the Zimi API.

## Known limitations

1. Entity name changes made in the Zimi app will not be reflected in Home Assistant until after a restart. This is because entity names are only read during integration setup and Home Assistant startup.

> ## Removing the integration
> 
> This integration follows standard integration removal. No extra steps are required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Troubleshooting

### Missing Zimi Devices

If there are missing Zimi devices after the initial integration, you may have to run the discovery process again.

To do this:

1. Go to **Settings** > **Devices & Services**
2. Click on **Zimi**
3. Click **Add Hub**
This will re-run the discovery process.

> ### Device Authorization Failure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Device authorization failure
```

Due to the authorization lifecycle of the Zimi Cloud Controller, the device implements rate limiting on authorization requests. If you exceed these limits
(typically more than 3-5 requests within a few minutes), the device will temporarily reject new connection attempts. If you encounter this issue, you'll
need to wait for the rate limit to reset.

To do this:

> 1. Remove the integration from **Settings** > **Devices & Services** > **Zimi**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Remove the integration from {% my integrations title="**Settings** > **Devices & services**" %} > **Zimi**.
```

> 2. Wait for approximately 5 minutes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Wait for approximately 5 minutes.
```

> 3. Try adding the integration again

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Try adding the integration again.

## Removing the integration

This integration follows standard integration removal. No extra steps are required.

{% include integrations/remove_device_service.md %}
```

---
title: Zimi Cloud Controller
description: Access and control your Zimi Cloud Controller and its connected Zimi-based devices.
featured: false
ha_iot_class: Local Push

> ha_release: 2024.6

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2025.6
```

> ha_release: "2024.3.0"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2024.6
```

ha_codeowners:
  - '@markhannon'
  - '@mhannon11'
ha_category:
  - Light

> ha_domain: zimi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_domain: zimi
ha_config_flow: true
```

| Multi-Purpose Switch (2 button) | Switch         | 2xSwitch            | Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name}                                   | Future    |
| Multi-Purpose Switch (3 button) | Switch         | 3xSwitch            | Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name}                  | Future    |
| Multi-Purpose Switch (4 button) | Switch         | 4xSwitch            | Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name} | Future    |
|Power Point                      | Outlet         | 2xOutlet            | Outlet {Name}|Future|

### Zimi light controller

- Light entity: Basic on/off and brightness control

## Data updates

The integration receives updates instantly from the Zimi Cloud Controller via the Zimi API.

## Known limitations

1. Entity name changes made in the Zimi app will not be reflected in Home Assistant until after a restart. This is because entity names are only read during integration setup and Home Assistant startup.

## Troubleshooting

### Missing Zimi Devices

If there are missing Zimi devices after the initial integration, you may have to run the discovery process again.

To do this:

1. Go to **Settings** > **Devices & Services**

> 2. Click on **Zimi**
> 3. Click **Add Hub**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Zimi**
3. Select **Add Hub**
```
we [avoid click](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/c/click)

---
title: Zimi Cloud Controller
description: Access and control your Zimi Cloud Controller and its connected Zimi-based devices.
featured: false
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_release: 2025.6
ha_codeowners:
  - '@markhannon'
  - '@mhannon11'
ha_category:
  - Light

> ha_domain: zimi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_domain: zimi
ha_platforms:
  - light
```

ha_config_flow: true
---

> The **Zimi** {% term integration %} allows you to connect your Zimi Cloud Controller to Home Assistant and, via this integration, control local devices connected to the Zimi mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Zimi Cloud Controller** {% term integration %} allows you to connect your Zimi Cloud Controller to Home Assistant and, via this integration, control local devices connected to the Zimi mesh.
```
Align integration name with name provided in header

---
title: Zimi Cloud Controller
description: Access and control your Zimi Cloud Controller and its connected Zimi-based devices.
featured: false
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_release: 2025.6
ha_codeowners:
  - '@markhannon'
  - '@mhannon11'
ha_category:
  - Light
ha_domain: zimi
ha_platforms:
  - light

> ha_config_flow: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_config_flow: true
quality_scale: bronze
```

| Multi Dimmer Switch (4 button)  | Light          | 2xLight             | Light {Name}<br>Light {Name}                                     | Yes       |
| Multi-Purpose Switch (1 button) | Switch         | 1xSwitch            | Switch {Name}                                                    | Future    |
| Multi-Purpose Switch (2 button) | Switch         | 2xSwitch            | Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name}                                   | Future    |
| Multi-Purpose Switch (3 button) | Switch         | 3xSwitch            | Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name}                  | Future    |
| Multi-Purpose Switch (4 button) | Switch         | 4xSwitch            | Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name}<br>Switch {Name} | Future    |
|Power Point                      | Outlet         | 2xOutlet            | Outlet {Name}|Future|

### Zimi light controller

- Light entity: Basic on/off and brightness control

## Data updates

The integration receives updates instantly from the Zimi Cloud Controller via the Zimi API.

## Known limitations

> 1. Entity name changes made in the Zimi app will not be reflected in Home Assistant until after a restart. This is because entity names are only read during integration setup and Home Assistant startup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Entity name changes made in the Zimi app will not be reflected in Home Assistant until after a restart. This is because entity names are only read during integration setup and Home Assistant startup.
```

## Troubleshooting

> ### Missing Zimi Devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Missing Zimi devices
```

If there are missing Zimi devices after the initial integration, you may have to run the discovery process again.

To do this:

> 1. Go to **Settings** > **Devices & Services**
> 2. Select **Zimi**
> 3. Select **Add Hub**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to **Settings** > **Devices & Services**.
2. Select **Zimi**.
3. Select **Add Hub**.
```

---
title: Zimi Cloud Controller
description: Access and control your Zimi Cloud Controller and its connected Zimi-based devices.
featured: false
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_release: 2025.6
ha_codeowners:
  - '@markhannon'
  - '@mhannon11'
ha_category:
  - Light
ha_domain: zimi
ha_platforms:
  - light
ha_config_flow: true

> quality_scale: bronze

Reviewer: ```suggestion
quality_scale: bronze
integration_type: hub
```
